OK now before we continue I think it's really important to cover a couple fundamental concepts in react
rather Don and to do so.
I've built this very quick little application to demonstrate all it is is.
It has three pages.
It has a home page.
It has a topics page and it has a topic ideas page right a topic detailed in so three pages.
Now if we were to look at the code for this we would see that it's just three functional components
that render divs with the H1 telling us where we're at.
And then it's all nested in roots inside of our app component.
Right our home route is the base slash path with the component home page.
Our topics route slash topics and then our topics.
Detail is slash topics slash colon topic I.D..
Now I know that this colon topic idea is kind of new but we're going to cover that a little later.
The first thing that I want us to look at is our home page.
The reason why is because one of the things that react writer Dom does for us is that any component
that gets rendered by our root gets past three arguments.
The component that gets rendered is going to be the component we pass into our component property on
our root but what do those three properties look like.
Well let's lock them out and see
Let's navigate to our home page and let's open up our dev tools.
We'll see that the three props that we got past were a history prop a location and a match.
Now the one I want to look at first is the match so there's four things we get inside of our match.
The first is the URL the you URL is just the you are L of our component that it got rendered up to from
the root.
Now what do I mean by this so if we were to look at our root for home page right we learned that in
our last lesson without this exact keyword any of our paths that start with a slash and then anything
after is also going to render our home page because technically if we were to navigate to slash topics
now we are still matching the forward slash portion of our if you are L right.
Which means that this root pattern is matching for our home page but if we were to look at our match
we actually see that you are our only matches up till the slash not the slash topics so that you are
all no matter what we type even if we were to navigate all the way here and the you are L property on
our match will always only display the You are all up until where it actually matched
the path property is just the pattern that the route is looking to map.
So the path property for our home page would be just the slash the path property for our topics list
would just be slash topics and then for topic detail will be slash topics slash colon topic ideas which
is what we see here if we were to log this in each of these components we will see that that is exactly
what we'll show.
So if we were to navigate to topics we'll see in our topics that the path is just the slash topics which
is the pattern that it's matching in the root the is exact.
Property is the one that's matching that is only true if the entire U R L matches the pattern.
So while it's true for is first topics because we're at slash topics it is false for our homepage that
despite it being rendered it's not a perfect match because there's more of the U.R.L. than what is being
matched by the root.
Finally the Paramus property is an object of you are all parameters.
Now what's a You are all parameter.
This is a useful parameter or a root parameter.
When we write this in our path we're saying that this route is waiting to match anything up to slash
topics and then slash anything in this spot.
After it can be a dynamically changing value.
Right.
But that topic ideas value we want to be able to access as a parameter.
Now why is this important.
If we were to navigate so let's make our home page exact right.
If we were to navigate to slash topics slash 13 we actually now have access to that in our pram.
But let's log it first
we'll see that in our match.
We now have access to this topic I.D. 13.
This is really useful because let's say in our topics detail we wanted to show which topic we're looking
at.
While we would be able to access it by going topics not matched up her Ram's dot topic idea
and if we wanted to use this I.D. to fetch a set of data related to this specific topic right.
It's good that in r topic detail page we have access to that specific ideas so these parameters.
And doing it with this style allows our topic detail to populate itself if we needed it to from some
kind of backend database based off of what specific detail it's at and our topic.
Detail now is aware of it and usually we store this based on your URL parameter.
Right.
Like if we were to.
If you look at many web applications you'll see that if you are looking at one of your friends for example
on Facebook it'll say Facebook dot com slash profile slash and then they're either email or some unique
identifier.
So that is why this program pattern is so valuable now.
The next thing is the history now the history one is quite complicated but the main thing I want to
focus on is the push.
So there's two ways to navigate in react router Dom between our pages right now we've just been dynamically
updating the URL and getting to different pages.
But in reality the first one is the use of this link component and the link component is a special component
that RAC writer Dom gives us that lets us dynamically pass in this property of two and then the string
of where we want this link to take us to and now if I go to home I have this what looks like a modified
a link that will take me to this link.
The only difference between this and are actual topics is that react.
You've got to remember is a single page application which means that it's not actually read directing
you and rebuilding the entire application every time the URL changes.
We're really just hijacking the your Ls position to determine with JavaScript what part of the Dom to
take off and then what part of the Dom to replace right.
What component do we want to remount or mount.
We're not trying to re render the entire application which was typically the case before we were building
react application because react is an SBA a single page application.
So because of this an ailing would actually force you to redirect and re render the entire application
whereas using the react route or Dom link where just borrowing the URL to to tell our application what
to re render now the other way to do this type of navigation is using the history prof so if instead
of a link we wanted to use a button and in the on click of our button we would pass it a function that
gets called whenever it gets clicked.
And in this function we would call the history prop right and we would tell it dot push and then the
string where we want to go.
So this is equivalent to using a link but it gives us more dynamic access.
Right.
We can dynamically functionally control when we want this to work.
So if for example we wanted to do this in a component did mount instead.
Right.
We couldn't render a link in our component did mount because it's just a functional call.
It's a method we would use history dot push and we'll see that here right.
We have this topics button.
We can just click it and go so that's the main use that we get out of the history prof.
The third prop that we have is the location the location prop actually tells us where we are currently.
Like what is our application.
The main thing I want us to focus on is the path name.
Ignore these other properties let's just look at the Parthenon if we were to navigate.
Let's say let's not make our home page exact again if we were to navigate to slash like all these random
savvy URLs even though our home page still matches our location gives us the full path name of where
we are currently.
So this is useful because our application our components in some way can become aware of what the full
you are.
Looks like now.
Why would we use these properties while the history one with the push we understand location we can
see why we might need the path name at some point but the main usage of match beyond being inside of
a specific topic detail another useful thing about it is that this allows our components to build out
a nested root structure so what do I mean by nested roots.
Well let's say for example our topic detail page renders out a bunch of links right or sorry our topic
list page renders out a bunch of links to a bunch of topic details while we get out of the link.
And this link will go to a dynamically generated root.
Let's say we want to say prop stop match dot.
You are all right.
So we want to use the current you are all and then we want to say that we want to go to any topic detail
right.
We want to go to let's say I want to go to 13 for example and this one is too topic 13 and let's do
this for a couple others 17 21.
These are all just random Well now it doesn't matter where our topics list is.
It will always now be aware and know how to take us to that you are all right.
Even if our topics list was at some obscure long you are Al that it was not aware of assuming that this
was the case right.
Now we can change it in our route
but now our topics list doesn't care.
Let me just hide our home page as well.
Now our topics list doesn't care about anything regarding where are you are.
L is from the point of where it matched all it cares about is that I'm trying to render out or take
you to different topics right from my path onwards.
So this is how we can build out dynamic routing without our topics list being aware of the entire You
are all right and we can now reuse this topic list in multiple places as long as our topic right our
topic detail.
As long as we have the appropriate routes for it so we can even replicate this with just a blog topics
but we can still use the same component for it because now right we have this topic list that works
but we also have this topic list that works and they can take you to different topics.
It's actually we've still just we've compartmentalized and able to reuse our topic list and topic detail
with dynamic routing.
That's why this match property is useful so we will see this a little bit more so these are still very
abstract concepts but it's very valuable for us right now to know what they are so armed with this knowledge.
Let's keep building our application.